Hey,
guys,
welcome back.
So in this video,
we're going to discuss the difference between the worksheets collection object and the
sheets collection object.
So basically,
the worksheets collection contains only the worksheets that we use often,
you know the regular type when you press the plus button.
This is the type of worksheets that get inserted by default.
Our if you right,
click on any sheet,
click on insert and click on worksheet and press.
OK,
this is the only type of work sheets or,
if she eats,
that is contained in the worksheets collection.
Okay,
however,
the sheets collection contains the other types as well.
So the chart and the macro sheets and international macro seasonal these sheets that we
don't use often.
Okay,
so that's may need the difference.
Actually,
the worksheets collection contains just this single type of worksheets,
but actually the sheets collection could things charge sheets,
macro sheets and these other types that we don't use often.
And to illustrate that with an example.
If you write worksheets dot ads and then on the type parameter,
we would write Excel Sheet type dot axel chart,
for example.
OK,
so actually,
the charge sheet is not one of the types that are part of the worksheets collection.
So if you run that,
you will get an error.
And actually it is a bit weird that there is actually a type parameter in the worksheets
collection.
Because if you think about it,
the worksheets collection contains only one type,
and there is no need to put a type parameter right.
At least that's what I think.
So I mean,
this parameters,
in my opinion,
should not exist.
But oh,
well,
okay,
so if you actually change the worksheet start,
Adam,
make it just sheets,
start ad and run that you actually have a chart sheet inserted.
So this actually illustrates that actually,
the charge sheet is part off the sheets collection.
One more thing I want to tell you as well is that when inserting a sheet,
you could actually omit the actual Excel sheet type.
This is a constant.
You can omit it,
actually,
and right,
just type equals excel chart.
And this will enable you to insert a charge sheet as well.
But the Excel sheet type enables you to have a drop down with she types of the different
she types.
So it is better,
I believe to write it because this will enable you to have a list.
And you won't need to memorize the difference.
She types how they're written.
So okay,
to illustrate the difference even more,
we're gonna use the sheet,
start counts property.
We're gonna put it inside a message box.
And actually,
I'm gonna comment this line of code as well so that it wouldn't be executed.
And now,
if you run that macro here,
you're gonna four.
And the reason is that Excel is counting all the she types because the sheets collection
object contains all the she types.
So the regular worksheets that we use and the chart sheets as well we've got four in total
here.
Now,
if you actually run the message box was worksheets.
Stock counts.
You'll see here that we get a two on Lee because it's only counting the regular type of
worksheets that we use,
which is sheet one and C two.
This is why we're getting it to OK,
so this is basically the difference between the worksheets collection object and the sheets
collection object.
So thanks,
guys,
for watching this video,
and I'll see on the next one